Now voice is very different to data voice calls are smooth inductor.
They require a certain amount of bandwidth and they require that all the time they don't burst like
a data.
Applications do voice codecs such as G 7 to 9 or G 711 use a certain amount of bandwidth and they need
that for the entire voice call.
So they said to be smooth they benign they don't try and grab bandwidth from other applications but
they are very drop sensitive and very delete sensitive.
If your voice packets are dropped or delayed it will affect the voice conversation.
So in a voice over IP scenario it's very important that packets arrive without a lot of delay and packets
are not dropped.
Voice is transmitted across UDP so there's no capability to transmit the lost to voice.
These are the one way requirements for voice latency less than 150 milliseconds to less than 30 milliseconds
loss less than 1 percent bandwidth it does vary depending on the codec used but as an example it's in
the range 30 kilometers per second 228 kilohertz per second video has characteristics of voice and characteristics
of data in that it's bursting and greedy.
A video with a lot of movement requires more bandwidth than a video where there's not a lot of movement.
So as an example if you were watching a video stream where there's a lot of action on the screen so
people are moving around or cause a racing or an ultimate example would be a video of a fire.
There's a lot of changes on the screen when videoing fire it's going to grab a lot of bandwidth and
be very busty.
If you were videoing a stall scene so as an example you were videoing a wall on a building with no movement.
The bandwidth requirements would be a lot less video however is drop sensitive like voice it's delay
sensitive like voice and it uses GDP rather than TTP.
So the one way requirements for video are similar to voice delay or latency less than 150 milliseconds
jitter less than 30 milliseconds loss between zero point one and one percent bandwidth does vary depending
on the video stream.
As an example if you're watching 720 P or 100 ATP or high definition the bandwidth requirements can
be a lot higher but for the CCMA we'll use a value of 384 kilohertz per second to 20 plus megabits per
second.
So the thing to remember is that video and voice or delete sensitive they are drop sensitive.
A lot of data traffic doesn't have those requirements so data traffic such as FCP can be dropped.
It can be delayed but voice traffic in a audio stream or a video conference needs to be pro terrorized.
So the idea with quality of service is that we cannot give priority to some sessions over other sessions.
The packets of delay sensitive applications such as voice and video are going to be prioritized over
traffic from non delay sensitive applications such as FTB will drop 50 P packets before we drop voice
packets with FCP it doesn't matter it will re transmit.
But if we did drop voice packets and video packets it would affect the user experience.
So with quality of service we are going to create policies and implement policies using quality of service
mechanisms on a network to prioritize certain traffic types over other traffic types.